code_improvement.md, before:

##Proposed Improvements to the Code:

After issuing the first version of the Open Code of Conduct, we received many suggestions about modifying the text, both directly on the repo as well as via off-line conversations. We did not want to lose these suggestions, as they were made sincerely. But we did not include these suggestions in our current version either.

We list some of the suggested additions and edits to the Open Code of Conduct and offer them for consideration. Your communities might wish to use these. As a project leader, you are in the best position to assess how helpful these will be for you. We’ll add our thoughts as to how you may apply them to your code.

####Clarity on Consequences.
We were asked to add some consequence text taken from the [Geek Feminism Code of Conduct] (http://geekfeminism.org/about/code-of-conduct/): “_Anyone who violates this code of conduct may be banned from this community._” This could be added to Section 1 (Purpose). Alternatively, you may add to Section 6 (Consequences and Scope) the following “_Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply immediately. If an individual engages in unacceptable behavior, the representative may take any action they deem appropriate, up to and including a permanent ban from our community without warning._” Another consequence to consider adding: “_At our discretion, we may publicly name a person about whom we’ve received harassment complaints, or privately warn third parties about them._” 

Strong consequence text sends a clear message about the intent of a CoC -- to keep people who misbehave out of a project. Whereas this is very useful, it might not always be in the scope of the project’s capabilities to enforce. We chose not to add these to our current version since we expect that some of the project leaders who wish to adopt our text are constrained by employment rules that would limit their ability to publicize the names of those accused of harassment, or they might be unable to enforce a user ban. However you may wish to include this or similar consequence text explicitly for your community. Moreover, even if not explicitly stated, a CoC that does not include consequence text still implies that a response team will take whatever action they are able to in order to come to resolution.

####A more elaborate list of conduct that is considered harassment.
In an attempt to be clearer, you may consider listing more explicit examples of harassment. For example, our initial text started to include the following, taken from the [Geek Feminism Code of Conduct] (http://geekfeminism.org/about/code-of-conduct/):
  * Offensive comments related to gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, mental illness, neuro(a)typicality, physical appearance, body size, race, age, regional discrimination, political or religious affiliation
  * Unwelcome comments regarding a person’s lifestyle choices and practices, including those related to food, health, parenting, drugs, and employment
  * Deliberate misgendering. This includes deadnaming or persistently using a pronoun that does not correctly reflect a person's gender identity. You must address people by the name they give you when not addressing them by their username or handle
  * Physical contact and simulated physical contact (eg, textual descriptions like “*hug*” or “*backrub*”) without consent or after a request to stop
  * Threats of violence, both physical and psychological
  * Incitement of violence towards any individual, including encouraging a person to commit suicide or to engage in self-harm
  * Deliberate intimidation
  * Stalking or following
  * Harassing photography or recording, including logging online activity for harassment purposes
  * Sustained disruption of discussion
  * Unwelcome sexual attention, including gratuitous or off-topic sexual images or behaviour
  * Pattern of inappropriate social contact, such as requesting/assuming inappropriate levels of intimacy with others
  * Continued one-on-one communication after requests to cease
  * Deliberate “outing” of any aspect of a person’s identity without their consent except as necessary to protect others from intentional abuse
  * Publication of non-harassing private communication

In our current version, we reduced the number of examples to the list  you’ll find in Section 4 (Unaccepted Behaviors) of our current code. You might choose to expand upon this list if this helps your community. Not including this list does not imply these are acceptable behaviors. Rather, your code should balance clarity with brevity.

####A list of conduct excluded from the category of harassment. 
Given a list of harassment behaviors, we were asked to include a list of behaviors that ths code does not consider to be harassment. You may wish to add “_We will not act on complaints regarding:_” and then list those items that you exclude.

For example, the following items are excluded from the [Geek Feminism Code of Conduct] (http://geekfeminism.org/about/code-of-conduct/).
  * ‘Reverse’ -isms, including ‘reverse racism,’ ‘reverse sexism,’ and ‘cisphobia’ 
  * Reasonable communication of boundaries, such as “leave me alone,” “go away,” or “I’m not discussing this with you.”
  * Refusal to explain or debate social justice concepts
  * Communicating in a ‘tone’ you don’t find congenial
  * Criticizing racist, sexist, cissexist, or otherwise oppressive behavior or assumptions

You could add a new section to explicitly elaborate exclusions, you could modify Section 4 (Unaccepted Behaviors), or you could add to Section 3 (Expected Behaviors) what you expect as appropriate responses to the above behaviors. 

We chose to leave the section out of the Open Code of Conduct since we wished to start with a more expansive set of items and then pare it down as needed. Your community may chose a more limited scope of behaviors you are willing to address, thus assuring that some complaints, such as those related to reverse-isms, would not be honored.

####Dispute resolution processes.
Although our first version did not include suggestions for how disputing parties could work things out without raising a complaint, some people suggested that we clarify that we did not think asking disputing parties to “work things out on their own.” was a good idea. We agree that telling people to work things out on their own, but did not feel the need to list resolutions that we didn't think would work. The [Django Project Code of Conduct Enforcement Manual] (https://www.djangoproject.com/conduct/enforcement-manual/) contains a detail list of resolutions that range from public apologies to permanent bans. You may consider adding text to Section 6 (Consequences and Scope) or a new section where you list the resolutions that your community sees as appropriate.

####Prohibiting complaints “on-behalf-of” others. 
It was suggested to us that the Code of Conduct explicitly prohibit complaints that refer to misconduct that is witnessed but not experienced. We were unsure where this exclusion best applies. On the one hand, if there is witnessed harassment, the project leadership might want to know about it and take proactive steps to protect the victim as well as negative consequences to the project. On the other hand, allowing non-participating parties to register complaints may open the door to complaint-abuse where people create fake issues for the purpose of griefing others on the project. We leave it up to you to decide if you want to add an exclusion to 3rd party reports. If so, please edit the first line of Section 5 (Reporting Issues) to remove the “_or witness_” text and then add an clarification that reports are only accepted by people who are involved in the incident.

####Explicit condemnation of tone policing. 
A _Tone Argument_, [as defined here] (http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Tone_argument), is an expression of concern regarding the tone of someone’s argument -- e.g. that they are being argumentative and could be more convincing if they worded their statements in a more civil tone. It was suggested that a Code of Conduct explicitly condemn calling out tonality as an area of concern that would justify a complaint. In other words, if a person feels harassed by someone who expresses themselves in an uncivil tone, that the code should refuse to acknowledge that complaint as valid since it only calls attention to the tone of a statement, not the statement itself.

Our current version of the code indicates civil and professional tone as an expected behavior. This implies that uncivil tone toward project members may be raised as a valid misconduct issue. If you wish to remove tone policing as a valid concern, you can add this in the list of excluded harassment types and edit the list of expected behaviors to remove items related to civility, professional tone, and careful word selection. We believe that project leaders can set the expectations for what they consider acceptable tone in their community. So we'll state the position in our code, and offer this altnerative if you prefer your community to operate with a different standard.

####Prioritization of the complaints from marginalized people over those of the privileged. 
This suggestion comes from language found in the [Geek Feminism Code of Conduct] (http://geekfeminism.org/about/code-of-conduct/). Prioritization implies the comparison of two independent reports, but could also refer to biases applied to two parties involved in one dispute. 

You can add a section to your code describing how reports are prioritized in the queue, or how biases are applied to complaints from some members of your community. Our current version does not elaborate on how the response team should handle the request queue. You may elect a strict approach weere requests addressed in the order they are received. You may empower your response team to use their discretion to determine what they perceive is a high-priority item and address it before resolving an older item. And you may chose to adopt a categorical prioritization where issues are marked with severity levels that imply either the impact of the issue on the project, or the priority given to some members of your community over others. We opted not to specify how reponse teams prioritize their work, but we suggest that making this explicit sends a clear signal to your community about how they should expect complaints to be handled. 

####Including in-scope statements made outside of the context of the community. 
It was  suggested that we expand the scope of the code to include harassment incidents that takes place outside the community as sufficient grounds to cause action within the community. This was inspired by language found in the [Geek Feminism Code of Conduct] (http://geekfeminism.org/about/code-of-conduct/). Moreover, we were given a use case to consider based on a recent event in the Opal Community where the question was raised about removing a member from the community who posted a comment on Twitter that upset someone who was not a participant in the community, about a topic that was not related to the community. As these situations do arise, it is wise to consider how your community would address these cases.

You may wish to expand or restrict the scope of your code of conduct to address the following situations: 
  * If a member of the community harasses another member of the community outside of the context of the community (e.g. in personal or public forums).
  * If a member of the community harasses a non-member of the community, and the non-member registers a complaint with the project response team requesting action by restricting privileges within the community.
  * If a member of the community expresses a sentiment that offends a non-member of the community using the community forum.
  * and other similar cases...

We leave the decision to the project leader to express the scope that you are willing to take for your projects. We chose to focus the text of our current version to only cover actions that take place by project members on the project forums engaging with other project memebers. If this scope is too limiting for your community, include a revision in Section 6 (Consequences and Scope) to indicate how you'd address the in-scope situations.

####Other suggestions
Whereas we did recieve other suggestions of text to add to the code of conduct we are not listing them here since we did not see those on any other used Code of Conduct.

Commit message:

editing the reporting clarification content.

code_improvement.md, after:

##Proposed Improvements to the Code:

After issuing the first version of the Open Code of Conduct, we received many suggestions about modifying the text, both directly on the repo as well as via off-line conversations. We did not want to lose these suggestions, as they were made sincerely. But we did not include these suggestions in our current version either.

We list some of the suggested additions and edits to the Open Code of Conduct and offer them for consideration. Your communities might wish to use these. As a project leader, you are in the best position to assess how helpful these will be for you. We’ll add our thoughts as to how you may apply them to your code.

####Clarity on Consequences.
We were asked to add some consequence text taken from the [Geek Feminism Code of Conduct] (http://geekfeminism.org/about/code-of-conduct/): “_Anyone who violates this code of conduct may be banned from this community._” This could be added to Section 1 (Purpose). Alternatively, you may add to Section 6 (Consequences and Scope) the following “_Participants asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply immediately. If an individual engages in unacceptable behavior, the representative may take any action they deem appropriate, up to and including a permanent ban from our community without warning._” Another consequence to consider adding: “_At our discretion, we may publicly name a person about whom we’ve received harassment complaints, or privately warn third parties about them._” 

Strong consequence text sends a clear message about the intent of a CoC -- to keep people who misbehave out of a project. Whereas this is very useful, it might not always be in the scope of the project’s capabilities to enforce. We chose not to add these to our current version since we expect that some of the project leaders who wish to adopt our text are constrained by employment rules that would limit their ability to publicize the names of those accused of harassment, or they might be unable to enforce a user ban. However you may wish to include this or similar consequence text explicitly for your community. Moreover, even if not explicitly stated, a CoC that does not include consequence text still implies that a response team will take whatever action they are able to in order to come to resolution.

####A more elaborate list of conduct that is considered harassment.
In an attempt to be clearer, you may consider listing more explicit examples of harassment. For example, our initial text started to include the following, taken from the [Geek Feminism Code of Conduct] (http://geekfeminism.org/about/code-of-conduct/):
  * Offensive comments related to gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, mental illness, neuro(a)typicality, physical appearance, body size, race, age, regional discrimination, political or religious affiliation
  * Unwelcome comments regarding a person’s lifestyle choices and practices, including those related to food, health, parenting, drugs, and employment
  * Deliberate misgendering. This includes deadnaming or persistently using a pronoun that does not correctly reflect a person's gender identity. You must address people by the name they give you when not addressing them by their username or handle
  * Physical contact and simulated physical contact (eg, textual descriptions like “*hug*” or “*backrub*”) without consent or after a request to stop
  * Threats of violence, both physical and psychological
  * Incitement of violence towards any individual, including encouraging a person to commit suicide or to engage in self-harm
  * Deliberate intimidation
  * Stalking or following
  * Harassing photography or recording, including logging online activity for harassment purposes
  * Sustained disruption of discussion
  * Unwelcome sexual attention, including gratuitous or off-topic sexual images or behaviour
  * Pattern of inappropriate social contact, such as requesting/assuming inappropriate levels of intimacy with others
  * Continued one-on-one communication after requests to cease
  * Deliberate “outing” of any aspect of a person’s identity without their consent except as necessary to protect others from intentional abuse
  * Publication of non-harassing private communication

In our current version, we reduced the number of examples to the list  you’ll find in Section 4 (Unaccepted Behaviors) of our current code. You might choose to expand upon this list if this helps your community. Not including this list does not imply these are acceptable behaviors. Rather, your code should balance clarity with brevity.

####A list of conduct excluded from the category of harassment. 
Given a list of harassment behaviors, we were asked to include a list of behaviors that ths code does not consider to be harassment. You may wish to add “_We will not act on complaints regarding:_” and then list those items that you exclude.

For example, the following items are excluded from the [Geek Feminism Code of Conduct] (http://geekfeminism.org/about/code-of-conduct/).
  * ‘Reverse’ -isms, including ‘reverse racism,’ ‘reverse sexism,’ and ‘cisphobia’ 
  * Reasonable communication of boundaries, such as “leave me alone,” “go away,” or “I’m not discussing this with you.”
  * Refusal to explain or debate social justice concepts
  * Communicating in a ‘tone’ you don’t find congenial
  * Criticizing racist, sexist, cissexist, or otherwise oppressive behavior or assumptions

You could add a new section to explicitly elaborate exclusions, you could modify Section 4 (Unaccepted Behaviors), or you could add to Section 3 (Expected Behaviors) what you expect as appropriate responses to the above behaviors. 

We chose to leave the section out of the Open Code of Conduct since we wished to start with a more expansive set of items and then pare it down as needed. Your community may chose a more limited scope of behaviors you are willing to address, thus assuring that some complaints, such as those related to reverse-isms, would not be honored.

####Dispute resolution processes.
Although our first version did not include suggestions for how disputing parties could work things out without raising a complaint, some people suggested that we clarify that we did not suggest that disputing parties should “work things out on their own.” We agree that telling people to "work things out on their own" is not an effective resolution process. 

The [Django Project Code of Conduct Enforcement Manual] (https://www.djangoproject.com/conduct/enforcement-manual/) contains a detail list of resolutions that range from doing nothing, to public apologies to permanent bans. You may consider adding text to Section 6 (Consequences and Scope) or a new section where you list the resolutions that your community sees as appropriate. You may consider specifying, as they do, the process for enforcing and reporting resolutions, as well as the expected timeframes for each step of the process. 

####Prohibiting complaints “on-behalf-of” others. 
It was suggested to us that the Code of Conduct explicitly prohibit complaints that refer to misconduct that is witnessed but not experienced. We were unsure where this exclusion best applies. On the one hand, if there is witnessed harassment, the project leadership might want to know about it and take proactive steps to protect the victim as well as negative consequences to the project. On the other hand, allowing non-participating parties to register complaints may open the door to complaint-abuse where people create fake issues for the purpose of griefing others on the project. We leave it up to you to decide if you want to add an exclusion to 3rd party reports. If so, please edit the first line of Section 5 (Reporting Issues) to remove the “_or witness_” text and then add an clarification that reports are only accepted by people who are involved in the incident.

####Explicit condemnation of tone policing. 
A _Tone Argument_, [as defined here] (http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Tone_argument), is an expression of concern regarding the tone of someone’s argument -- e.g. that they are being argumentative and could be more convincing if they worded their statements in a more civil tone. It was suggested that a Code of Conduct explicitly condemn calling out tonality as an area of concern that would justify a complaint. In other words, if a person feels harassed by someone who expresses themselves in an uncivil tone, that the code should refuse to acknowledge that complaint as valid since it only calls attention to the tone of a statement, not the statement itself.

Our current version of the code indicates civil and professional tone as an expected behavior. This implies that uncivil tone toward project members may be raised as a valid misconduct issue. If you wish to remove tone policing as a valid concern, you can add this in the list of excluded harassment types and edit the list of expected behaviors to remove items related to civility, professional tone, and careful word selection. We believe that project leaders can set the expectations for what they consider acceptable tone in their community. So we'll state the position in our code, and offer this altnerative if you prefer your community to operate with a different standard.

####Prioritization of the complaints from marginalized people over those of the privileged. 
This suggestion comes from language found in the [Geek Feminism Code of Conduct] (http://geekfeminism.org/about/code-of-conduct/). Prioritization implies the comparison of two independent reports, but could also refer to biases applied to two parties involved in one dispute. 

You can add a section to your code describing how reports are prioritized in the queue, or how biases are applied to complaints from some members of your community. Our current version does not elaborate on how the response team should handle the request queue. You may elect a strict approach weere requests addressed in the order they are received. You may empower your response team to use their discretion to determine what they perceive is a high-priority item and address it before resolving an older item. And you may chose to adopt a categorical prioritization where issues are marked with severity levels that imply either the impact of the issue on the project, or the priority given to some members of your community over others. We opted not to specify how reponse teams prioritize their work, but we suggest that making this explicit sends a clear signal to your community about how they should expect complaints to be handled. 

####Including in-scope statements made outside of the context of the community. 
It was  suggested that we expand the scope of the code to include harassment incidents that takes place outside the community as sufficient grounds to cause action within the community. This was inspired by language found in the [Geek Feminism Code of Conduct] (http://geekfeminism.org/about/code-of-conduct/). Moreover, we were given a use case to consider based on a recent event in the Opal Community where the question was raised about removing a member from the community who posted a comment on Twitter that upset someone who was not a participant in the community, about a topic that was not related to the community. As these situations do arise, it is wise to consider how your community would address these cases.

You may wish to expand or restrict the scope of your code of conduct to address the following situations: 
  * If a member of the community harasses another member of the community outside of the context of the community (e.g. in personal or public forums).
  * If a member of the community harasses a non-member of the community, and the non-member registers a complaint with the project response team requesting action by restricting privileges within the community.
  * If a member of the community expresses a sentiment that offends a non-member of the community using the community forum.
  * and other similar cases...

We leave the decision to the project leader to express the scope that you are willing to take for your projects. We chose to focus the text of our current version to only cover actions that take place by project members on the project forums engaging with other project memebers. If this scope is too limiting for your community, include a revision in Section 6 (Consequences and Scope) to indicate how you'd address the in-scope situations.

####Other suggestions
Whereas we did recieve other suggestions of text to add to the code of conduct we are not listing them here since we did not see those on any other used Code of Conduct.
