README.md, before:

# Open Code of Conduct

An easy to reuse open source code of conduct *template* for communities.

Developed by the [@TODOGroup](https://twitter.com/todogroup) to promote code of conducts for open source communities.

## FAQ

#### What license is this code of conduct under?

A very liberal CC-BY-4.0 (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

#### What do you mean that the open code of conduct is a template?

It's very hard to develop a one size fits all code of conduct for open source communities, so we took template approach inspired by the BSD license: http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause. This allows organizations to work off the core code of conduct while customizing it to their needs.

#### What companies support or use the open code of conducts?

* Square: https://corner.squareup.com/codeofconduct.html
* Twitter: https://engineering.twitter.com/opensource/code-of-conduct
* Eclipse Foundation: TODO

#### Can I apply this code of conduct for conferences or events?

It wasn't intended for that purpose, but we highly recommend you look at http://confcodeofconduct.com/

Also, Ashe Dryden has some great information on the topic: http://www.ashedryden.com/blog/codes-of-conduct-101-faq

#### Can I use something simpler? What about the Contributor Covenant?

The [contributor convenant](http://www.ashedryden.com/blog/codes-of-conduct-101-faq) is a great option and we recommend you take a look at it. However, we had a need to make a customizable by default code of conduct in template form, geared towards companies who run larger open source projects.

## Thanks

We all stand on the shoulders of giants across many open source communities. 

We'd like to thank the communities and projects that established code of conducts and diversity statements as our inspiration:
* Django: https://www.djangoproject.com/conduct/reporting/
* Python: https://www.python.org/community/diversity/
* Ubuntu: http://www.ubuntu.com/about/about-ubuntu/conduct
* Contributor Covenant: http://contributor-covenant.org/

Commit message:

Add a section on why we have this in the first place

README.md, after:

# Open Code of Conduct

An easy to reuse open source code of conduct *template* for communities.

Developed by the [@TODOGroup](https://twitter.com/todogroup) to promote code of conducts for open source communities.

## FAQ

#### Why a code of conduct?

We strongly believe that code of conducts help set the ground rules for participation in communities and more importantly, help build a culture of respect and improve diversity. According to the latest [FLOSS survey](http://floss2013.libresoft.es/results.en.html), we have lots of work to do in improving diversity across open source communities.

Furthermore, diversity is the spice of life. Having a diverse contributor community from different backgrounds and organizations will help set your community up for long term success. Also, the [research](http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/how-diversity-makes-us-smarter/) shows that diverse communities are more creative, diligent and innovative.

#### What license is this code of conduct under?

A very liberal CC-BY-4.0 (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)

#### What do you mean that the open code of conduct is a template?

It's very hard to develop a one size fits all code of conduct for open source communities, so we took template approach inspired by the BSD license: http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause. This allows organizations to work off the core code of conduct while customizing it to their needs.

#### What companies support or use the open code of conducts?

* Square: https://corner.squareup.com/codeofconduct.html
* Twitter: https://engineering.twitter.com/opensource/code-of-conduct
* Eclipse Foundation: TODO

#### Can I apply this code of conduct for conferences or events?

It wasn't intended for that purpose, but we highly recommend you look at http://confcodeofconduct.com/

Also, Ashe Dryden has some great information on the topic: http://www.ashedryden.com/blog/codes-of-conduct-101-faq

#### Can I use something simpler? What about the Contributor Covenant?

The [contributor convenant](http://www.ashedryden.com/blog/codes-of-conduct-101-faq) is a great option and we recommend you take a look at it. However, we had a need to make a customizable by default code of conduct in template form, geared towards companies who run larger open source projects.

#### Can I contribute and improve this code of conduct?

Contributions are welcome on how to improve the open code of conduct!

Please send us a pull request with your suggestions.

## Thanks

We all stand on the shoulders of giants across many open source communities. 

We'd like to thank the communities and projects that established code of conducts and diversity statements as our inspiration:
* Django: https://www.djangoproject.com/conduct/reporting/
* Python: https://www.python.org/community/diversity/
* Ubuntu: http://www.ubuntu.com/about/about-ubuntu/conduct
* Contributor Covenant: http://contributor-covenant.org/
